Tutorial split (#145)
pretix/pretix-docs: docs/tutorial/continuous-operation/event.md

 - [create an event series](event.md#event-creation)
 - [get an overview](event.md#event-level-dashboard) of the event's status on the dashboard
 - [enable the collection](event.md#customer-and-attendee-data) of customer and attendee data
 - [add images](event.md#shop-design) to the ticket shop

This covers all the necessary steps for creating an event.
We will then move on to modify our products according to our needs in the next article of this tutorial.

## Event creation

In order to create an event, we must first log in to our [pretix](https://pretix.eu/control/) account.
After that, clicking the :btn:pretix.eu: button in the top left corner of the website takes us to the dashboard and an overview of our upcoming events.
We will now click the :btn-icon:fa3-plus:Create a new event: button.

<br>

![Screenshot of page titled "Create new Event—Step 1", showing options for choosing an organizer account, the event type, and languages.](../../assets/screens/event-series/create-event-series1.png "Create new event step 1 screenshot" )

An event in pretix is always associated with an organizer account, so we have to choose one here.

> We will choose the organizer that is hosting this event—that is, the one we set up in the previous step of this tutorial.

Reviewer: Should we maybe add that normally one can't choose an organizer because they only have one?

We cannot change this selection after we have created the event.
Thus, we have to ensure we are picking the correct organizer account here.

Next, we have to choose the event type.
There are two options: "Singular event or non-event shop" and "Event series or time slot booking".
For this tutorial, we want to create a shop for a museum that operates most days of the week for an entire season.
Thus, we are going to choose the option "Event series or time slot booking".

> We are going to choose which languages to use for the event.

Reviewer: Should we point out that one can add languages later, too? And while pretix takes care of things like standard mail texts for all of the available languages one still has to translate product descriptions and so on, so that these will show up for all languages?

Once we are happy with our choices, we are going to click the :btn:Continue: button.

{% include "note-translations.md" %}

![Screenshot of page titled "Create new Event—Step 2", showing options for choosing name, short form, date, location, and geo coordinates for the event. Not pictured: currency, sales tax rate, time zone, start and end date of presale.](../../assets/screens/event/create-event2.png "Create new event step 2 screenshot" )

We are now asked to provide a name and a short form for the event.
For this tutorial, we are going to create a shop for the 2027 season.
Therefore, in the "Event name" field, we will enter `Tutorial Museum`.
For the "Short form" field, we will come up with an abbreviation for "Tutorial Museum" and include the last two digits of the year.

We will enter `tutmus27` into the field.
pretix appends the short form to the organizer's URL.
In our case, this results in the following URL:
https://pretix.eu/tut/tutmus27

{% include "note-short-form.md" %}

Like the name and short form, the start time for our event series is mandatory information.
We are going to enter the first of January, 2027, into the start time field.

> Since we already know our venue, we are going to put that location into pretix now.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since we already know our venue, we are going to enter that location into pretix now.
```

    For more information, see our guide on [creating tax rules](../../guides/taxes.md#creating-tax-rules).

Once we are happy with our choices, we are going to click the :btn:Continue: button.

{% include "warning-tax-rules.md" %}

<br>

![Screenshot of page titled "Create new Event—Step 3", showing an infobox asking the user to review all settings extensively and the option to import settings from a previously created event.](../../assets/screens/event/create-event3.png "Create new event step 3 screenshot" )

We are then asked if we want to copy information from a previously created event.
This option can save us a lot of work from our second event onwards.
But since this is the first event we are organizing with this organizer account, we will leave the default (_"Do not copy"_) and click :btn:Continue:.

<br>

![Screenshot of page titled "Congratulations! You just created an event!", showing a button for creating a first product, and ten tabs for switching to different settings.](../../assets/screens/event-series/create-event-series4.png "Create new event step 4 screenshot" )

pretix will now land us on the "General settings" page for the event series.

> We will provide a general email address at which our customers can contact us in the "Contact address" field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the "Contact address" field, we will provide a general email address where our customers can reach us.
```
Subtle rearrangement to eliminate double use of prepositions.

> Our shop page footer will display this email address with the label "Contact event organizer".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our shop page footer will display this email address under the heading "Contact event organizer".
```
I feel under the heading is more fitting than label.

Author: It's not a heading, it's just a mailto: link with different displayed text. So I'm sticking with "label" here. 
The label changed to just "Contact" though, so I'm updating that.

At this point, the overview will probably display a warning that our organizer account is not active yet.
The first time we see this warning, we are going to click the link and fill out the necessary information in the form.

Activating an account is a manual process and may take some time depending on the availability of the pretix team.
The team will activate our account during the following business day.
During this time, the warning will persist even if we have already provided all necessary information.

## Customer and attendee data

We are planning to print badges for our attendees during the conference.
That means we have to record their name and affiliation during purchase.

On the event-level dashboard, we will click :btn-icon:fa3-wrench: Settings: in the sidebar, which lands us on the general settings page for the event.
We will open the :btn:Customer and attendee data: tab at the top.

> The options on this tab allow us to set questions for certain information for every ticket purchased.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The options on this tab allow us to set up questions for certain information for every ticket purchased.
```

# Event series

After setting up an organizer account, the next step is creating an event series.
This article describes the creation and basic setup of an event series.
Here is a quick summary of the steps we are going to take in this section:

 - [create an event series](event.md#event-creation)
 - [get an overview](event.md#event-level-dashboard) of the event's status on the dashboard

>  - [enable the collection](event.md#customer-and-attendee-data) of customer and attendee data

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - enable the collection of [customer and attendee data](event.md#customer-and-attendee-data) 
```

... wenn überhaupt. Aber richtig sinnvoll erscheint das auch nicht?

{% include "warning-tax-rules.md" %}

<br>

![Screenshot of page titled "Create new Event—Step 3", showing an infobox asking the user to review all settings extensively and the option to import settings from a previously created event.](../../assets/screens/event/create-event3.png "Create new event step 3 screenshot" )

We are then asked if we want to copy information from a previously created event.
This option can save us a lot of work from our second event onwards.
But since this is the first event we are organizing with this organizer account, we will leave the default (_"Do not copy"_) and click :btn:Continue:.

<br>

![Screenshot of page titled "Congratulations! You just created an event!", showing a button for creating a first product, and ten tabs for switching to different settings.](../../assets/screens/event-series/create-event-series4.png "Create new event step 4 screenshot" )

pretix will now land us on the "General settings" page for the event series.
In the "Contact address" field, we will provide a general email address at which our customers can reach us.
Our shop page footer will display this email address with the label "Contact".

> We will also provide a URL to legal imprint information for our organization's online presence in the "Imprint URL" field.

Reviewer 2: > We will also provide a URL to legal imprint information for our organization's online presence in the "Imprint URL" field.

Haben wir das nicht schon unter "organizer account" gemacht?

Author: Ja, aber da geht es um die Seite des Veranstalters. Hier geht es um die Shopseite der Veranstaltung. pretix übernimmt diese Informationen nicht

The event-level dashboard gives us an overview of the event's basic information and status.
It allows us to leave internal comments for ourselves or our team and it logs recent changes.

![Screenshot of dashboard for a demo event titled Tutorial Conference, showing the title, buttons for sharing the event, the timeline, an overview of orders, payments and tickets left, as well as a field for internal comments. Not pictured: event logs for recent changes.](../../assets/screens/event-series/event-dashboard.png "Event dashboard screenshot")

At this point, the overview will probably display a warning that our organizer account is not active yet.
The first time we see this warning, we are going to click the link and fill out the necessary information in the form.

Activating an account is a manual process and may take some time depending on the availability of the pretix team.
The team will activate our account during the following business day.
During this time, the warning will persist even if we have already provided all necessary information.

## Customer and attendee data

> We are planning to print badges for our attendees during the conference.

Reviewer 2: > We are planning to print badges for our attendees during the conference.

... nur leider veranstalten wir in dem Museum gerade keine Konferenz.

> That means we have to record their name and affiliation during purchase.

Reviewer 2: > That means we have to record their name and affiliation during purchase.

Das macht diesen Teil auch eher hinfällig.

"We will use the name, title and company you submit for your badge."

Under "Form settings", we can choose the format in which pretix will ask attendees for names and titles.
We are going to select `Ask for Title + Given name + Family name, display like Dr John Doe` for names and `Free text input` for titles.
Changing these settings after already having received orders can lead to issues when sorting or changing names.
Thus, we will finalize our choice here before taking the ticket shop live.

We will click the :btn:Save: button to save these settings.

## Shop design

![Screenshot of "Shop design" tab, showing options for the header image and social media image, as well as a locked section at the bottom.](../../assets/screens/event/shop-design.png "Event shop design tab screenshot")

Switching to the "Shop design" tab at the top allows us to add images to our event shop and customize its colors.
Clicking the :btn-icon:fa3-eye:Go to shop: button in the bar at the top takes us to a preview of the shop from the customers' perspective.
A shop created with pretix Hosted will by default be located at https://pretix.eu/:placeholder:OrganizerShortForm:/:placeholder:EventShortForm:/.

> The shop we are creating for this tutorial is located at [https://pretix.eu/tut/tutcon27/](https://pretix.eu/tut/tutcon27/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The shop we are creating for this tutorial is located at [https://pretix.eu/tut/tutcon27/](https://pretix.eu/tut/tutmus27/).
```

By default, the page header of our shop will display the name of the event.

> The shop design settings allow us to replace the name with a header image that tells our customers about the event (e.g., by means of the event name, logo, or recognizable design).

Reviewer 2: > The shop design settings allow us to replace the name with a header image that tells our customers about the event (e.g., by means of the event name, logo, or recognizable design).

Wie passend ist das für unser Beispielmuseum?

We are going to add a header image by clicking the :btn:Browse...: button next to the "Header image" option and choosing a .png file with a resolution of 1140 × 120 pixels to upload from our computer.
By default, the header image will replace the name of the event at the top of the page.
But we still want to include the name of the event.

> Thus, we are going to check the box next to "Show event title even if a header image is present".

Reviewer 2: > Thus, we are going to check the box next to "Show event title even if a header image is present".

Ist das für das Beispiel "reguläre Tickets für ein Museum" passend und notwendig?

Author: Die meisten User*innen werden wahrscheinlich ein Titelbild hinzufügen wollen. Und dann ist es aus Gründen der Barrierefreiheit gar nicht so schlecht, den Titel trotzdem anzuzeigen.

We are also going to upload a .png file for the "Social media image" option.
pretix will use this image as a preview for any links to our ticket shop we post on social media.
If we do not upload a file here, then pretix will use the header image for previews instead.

Any changes we make on this page will only become visible in the event shop after we have clicked the :btn:Save: button.

## Conclusion

> We have gone through the four-step event creation process, gotten an overview of the event's status on the event dashboard, enabled the collection of customer and attendee data, and added images to the ticket shop.

Reviewer 2: > We have gone through the four-step event creation process, gotten an overview of the event's status on the event dashboard, enabled the collection of customer and attendee data, and added images to the ticket shop.

1. Ist nur leider der falsche Prozess.
2. Wenn ich als Neukunden für mein Museum einen Shop einrichte, ist "1. Ich lege eine Veranstaltung an. Die hat aber keinerlei Zeiten. 2. Ich lege Produkte an. 3. Ich lege Termine an." wahrscheinlich nicht ganz so intuitiv. Es wäre wohl sinnvoll, das etwas zu erläutern, warum das so ist usw.

Here is a quick summary of the steps we are going to take in this section:

 - [create an event series](event.md#event-creation)
 - [get an overview](event.md#event-level-dashboard) of the event series's status on the dashboard
 - enable the collection of [customer and attendee data](event.md#customer-and-attendee-data)
 - [add images](event.md#shop-design) to the ticket shop

This covers all the necessary steps for creating an event series.
We will then move on to modify our products according to our needs in the next article of this tutorial.

## Event creation

> In order to create an event series, we must first log in to our [pretix](https://pretix.eu/control/) account.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In order to create an event series, we must first log in to our [pretix account](https://pretix.eu/control/).
```
